The National Weather Service (NWS) Office of Observations is excited to invite you to the first session of the new Polar Book Club Seminar Series this Thursday, May 14, at 12:00 pm (EDT).

Scatterometer Wind Data in Marine Forecasting

Coastal NWS forecast offices are responsible for marine forecasting. Few people realize there are significantly less marine observations available to forecasters in comparison to land observations. To supplement this void, data is leveraged from the Scatterometer Satellite (SCATSAT) or the Advanced Scatterometer (ASCAT) instrument aboard the Metop satellites. During this session, we will explore how forecasters at the NWS office in Charleston, SC view and use ASCAT and SCATSAT data to verify and improve their marine forecasts.

Speaker: Michael Stroz, Meteorologist at WFO in Charleston, SC (CHS)

About the Speaker: Michael Stroz has been a forecaster with the NWS since 2008, beginning his career in Eureka, CA, and continuing now in Charleston, SC. Despite the radical differences between East and West Coast forecasting, both locations are similar in that they are responsible for marine forecasting. Michael is a member of the office marine team, where he assists with the latest rip current science, improvements to the Nearshore Wave Prediction System (NWPS), and Decision Support Services (DSS).

When: Thursday, May 14, at 12:00 p.m. EDT  Click here to add this to your calendar! 

How to Attend: Join the GoToMeeting here: https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/383463093

About the Polar Book Club: The Polar Book Club Seminar Series will take place weekly on Thursday, providing an opportunity for meteorologists throughout the field to share a topic of interest to them with their peers. Topics may include applications of satellite data in the field, new and exciting changes to both polar and geostationary programs, and anything else satellite-related that the field would like to discuss. The sessions will be 30 minutes long with a 15 minute presentation and a 15 minute discussion afterwards.

Questions? Contact David Bludis (david.bludis@noaa.gov), TOWR-S team member from the Office of Observations.

Need assistance with AWIPS data flow or the configuration of satellite products? The TOWR-S team is available to help you! Feel free to reach out to the team for any support.
